import-eXoDOS  -  A tool to import eXoDOS game collections into RetroPie

Copyright 2017 Scott Duensing <scott@duensing.com>

This work is free. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
terms of the Do What The Fuck You Want To Public License, Version 2,
as published by Sam Hocevar. See the COPYING file or visit 
http://www.wtfpl.net/ for more details.

Release notes are contained in the script itself.


What It Does

This script will clean up a freshly unpacked eXoDOS collection and make it
run under DOSBox on a RetroPie installation.  It adds all available metadata
to the EmulationStation menus.  It also does its very best to not touch
anything it doesn't absolutely have to mess with.  You can safely run this
script on your collection as many times as you like as long as you follow
the gotchas below.


Setup

Unpack your eXoDOS collection anywhere you like.  You can safely unpack 
multiple collections into the same place to add them all.  The original
eXoDOS launcher, Meagre, keeps all the metadata it needs to run each game in
a folder matching the game folders name under the "!dos" directory.  So, for
example, "Alone in the Dark" on my system has the following tree:

  /home/pi/RetroPie/roms/eXoDOS/adark1
  /home/pi/RetroPie/roms/eXoDOS/adark1/cd
  /home/pi/RetroPie/roms/eXoDOS/!dos/adark1
  /home/pi/RetroPie/roms/eXoDOS/!dos/adark1/Meagre
  /home/pi/RetroPie/roms/eXoDOS/!dos/adark1/Meagre/...

This is the required directory layout for this script.  Don't change it. 
Just unpack the collections and everything should be fine.


Running

To run the script, first make it executable and then run it against your
collection folder:

  chmod +x import-eXoDOS.sh
  ./import-eXoDOS.sh /home/pi/RetroPie/roms/eXoDOS

The script will process the collection, generate ES metadata, and create
launcher scripts for DOSBox.  The only RetroPie related files it will modify
are the startup scripts for each game in the roms/pc folder and the
gamelist.xml for the PC.


Gotchas

NOTE!  This script DOES alter the files in the unpacked eXoDOS collection! 
It will uppercase everything, create new AUTOEXEC.BAT files, remove extra
configuration files, etc.  If you wish to retain a clean copy of the eXoDOS
collection, keep your archived copy!

WARNING!  If you have manually added DOS games to your system already,
running this script WILL clobber your existing metadata!  Back up your
/home/pi/.emulationstation/gamelists/pc directory and manually merge the
new and your backed up XML files once it is complete.

If you need to modify the AUTOEXEC.BAT of any of the games in your
collection to make them run (several are broken in eXoDOS), DO NOT modify
the AUTOEXEC.BAT file in the actual game folder!  Instead, find the
DOSBOX.CONF file for the game under the EXODOS/!DOS folder and modify it. 
That way, when you re-run this script, your changes will be applied and not
clobbered when the AUTOEXEC.BAT is updated.  When you apply fixes, pretend
you're fixing the original Meager front end installation.  Do not remove
things like the first two "CD .." statements that Meager requires.

If you don't know what eXoDOS is or don't have a copy, don't ask me for it.
